So we're now ready to actually look at the user interface.
So finally, we did a lot of work.
We worked on our room database now and it is.
And then we worked on the repository.
And then we went to just finish our review model.
So now it's free.
It's time for us to see how we can use Enfoque View model so we can get that data.
This is the fun part for say.
But you see that we went through this process and I know it's cumbersome and I know you always think,
OK, why do we go through all of this?
But you see the benefits here is that once we have this infrastructure, we're free to scale up this
application to make this application as complex, as large as we possibly can or as we want it to be.
Right.
So it's really good because we have that set up, but we have the infrastructure that is solid and we
know that we have all the moving parts set up correctly.
OK.
So take the time to really go through.
These two will understand and always keep in mind the why we're doing this.
OK, so let's look at how we are going to use the view model in our design interface and start getting
data.
So let's open up our main activity first and then we need node screen.
We see notes, screen notes, screen like this.
OK.
So we have both of them because earlier we were using the view model.
This way, this no longer works the way we stay in shade.
It still works fine, right?
You say node view model a few model by models.
Also, we could have done something like this just different ways to satiate our view model can see
notes the model and say Set it to view model.
Like that and then the type, which is our view models, they note a few model like this.
OK.
So this also works.
That's just different options to do the same thing.
All right.
So we have this by delegate and a few models like this again passing our notes, few model in our Notes
app, which is being called how they brought him here.
Now, in this case, here, we no longer we don't really need to actually instantiated as such can just
remove that.
And for our notes here, what are we going to do with a note view model?
We are going to get do the following I see a dot note list because remember, you know, if you model,
we have this note list, which in this case, it's going to be our note list as flew.
And this note list here is being fed through our note list private internal here.
So that's what are we doing there?
But this is not enough because then we need to say we need to collect that information because remember,
this is a flow rate, which means just imagine that you have a pipe that has one and the data is flowing
in the sequence.
And at some point, do we need to collect it?
We say dot collect as state like this and then see value.
There we go.
So we're collecting these values as flow as state, which is very important because we want that reactivity.
They have to be stateful so that our composable can react to it and then change accordingly.
Very good.
And then, of course, we're passing this notes list here, and then I'll remove note.
We say note for your model and then we want to think of called delete.
Let's see what did we call it?
Remove note that it is then just pass a note or it like this same thing.
OK.
Now we're having some issues here, if you have overseas suspend function or move now, it should be
called only from a call routine or a to suspend function.
All right, let's go back to A. Few more.
I think I made a mistake.
All right.
Well, these guys no longer have to be suspended because where are we getting them?
You see, we are calling view model scope.
So that is taken care of fact already, right?
So we don't need to do CSPAN anymore.
That was my mistake.
And now if we go to Maine to see that this works just fine.
OK.
And there we go.
That's really all we need to do because notice we say no list we are passing, of course, starts from
here.
This is what we had before.
We have no review and I'm passing this wavy model creating that new model, right?
And then I'm passing through our Notes app, that note of your model and then that's been fed through
here.
And then I'm using it, creating a variable list here instead of the model note list.
And I say collect as state and gather value.
So I want to make sure that this is still it's containing that state as I'm collecting it.
So we still have that sequence of data that's coming in and is stateful.
It's very important.
And of course, we passed that note list into our notes screen because you remember our notes screen
here requires a list of notes so it can do its work.
So our on remove note we passed the note view model that removes and passed it in this case is the actual
note to have over, he says.
Note the same thing to add and voila.
If you look at this, you can see how organize and compartmentalize all of this is now.
The data layer is totally separate.
All of this.
It's all separate and DUI only requires the view model.
And called if you model, which then called rapacity, which then has access to Dow.
So if you look at the structures, we have it now, you can see that it doesn't really matter where
the data come from.
Right, because if we have a repository, we could have.
The data coming from our our database, but the data could of could also be coming from someone of the
source.
Notice that view model doesn't really care where the data comes from because it gives this responsibility
of worrying where the data is coming from.
It gives it to our repository.
And Dow is definitely who cares exactly where the data is coming from or how it's all being handled
there, because this is what has the direct access to where the data is coming from in this case.
Right.
And you can see you can scale this up to have data coming from an API outside our application like we
have somewhere in remote server, we have data coming in.
We can gather data and still access from here.
We can get this data from a file somewhere in our phone, right?
We can get this data from doesn't matter.
Because the repository is the single source of truth for all the data.
Right.
So that the user interface can communicate with.
So that is the reason why.
To have a structure like this to structure your apps, your apps, they have this clean architecture,
they have this structure that is clean, that is concise and consistent.
It's really helpful.
It takes a little bit of work to put it all together, but it's worth it, especially once the applications
get larger and more complex.
You can't really, really want you two to think about this and use this, this structure as you put
together your apps.
It's very important.
All right.
So let's see if this works because we've done all this work and we don't really know if maybe we make
mistakes somewhere and things are not working.
But let's see.
Let's see.
Let's go ahead and give it a run.
I still have my emulator running, I believe.
Let's see.
I have my device should say it's not going to run and see if we can actually add and remove items and
so forth.
All right.
So we still getting this issue.
Looks like cannot find implementation for another bass note that a implementation does not exist.
It looks like again for a module.
So something is that right?
Let's go back to school to a note app built in C so far a room.
Have a right because we're using codling.
There's another one we need to pass here.
Another dependency, so say capped, right?
This is Kotlin annotation processing tool.
So Marissa has Android X, so room room compiler.
But this is for Kotlin annotation, so it's pretty much the same as this pass in the codling annotation
processing tool capped.
And remember, we added that at the top here we should have Kotlin capped as an plugins.
Think this should work?
Let's go ahead and first of all, sync.
Take a moment of truth.
I think everything is sink tap, OK.
I saw him once again and see, so it's time for debugging because we can always miss something.
But hopefully this time it all runs.
Aha.
OK, so everything is great because the reason why I know it's great, even though we're not going to
see anything working here so far is because this error is actually intentional.
This new one.
This is not what we were having before.
So what is happening here is, let's see.
It says here cannot figure out how to save this field into the air base.
You can consider adding type convert for it.
So what's happening here is whenever we go.
In fact, you can see it says no, T.J. that Java.
So this is actually compiled.
Note that we created in our class.
OK, so we have an issue here with the new I'd be nice if you go to our note, you'll see that our UID
it's it's a strange for, say, type.
So what's happening is that room is very confused and doesn't know how to deal with this type.
And the same will happen.
And I know this because we have done this few times.
The same will happen with our data.
So what it says here, we need to create a type converter.
So what this is is the way in which we can actually create a type that will convert this type that is
not recognizing room into something that wrong will recognize because room is limited in the types that
it can understand to add into the air base.
The engineers, the room engineers, also gave us an option the capability of creating these types so
that these types can actually be saved onto the database.
The room database?
OK, so this is good, by the way.
Again, I said, this is a new error that I actually wanted for us to go through because it's important.